---
layout: post
title: Prospects on leaving for good.
---

A while ago, I started having this idea of "leaving for good" after thinking about something else. I can't exactly remember what that "something else" was but somehow, it was tea related and I don't know how I went from thinking about tea, to thinking about that idea of "leaving for good". You know that we're here right now right? Existing and living, right here and right now. What if there was a chance that we were to leave, for good, at some point in time. Not necessary now, it could be some time in the past, or maybe some time in the future. I'm talking probability here, and if you're still wondering what "leaving for good" means, it means death.

How should I put this... you're aware of the fact that as living beings, we would someday cease to function and simply leave the world for good right? And that could happen at anytime and anywhere. Even right now but of course, the probability of it happening now is quite low and the probability of it happening in the past is zero, else you wouldn't be reading this. If you do a quick search on life expectancy, you'll find that the probability of death will only increase the longer you stay alive, which is common sense.

Now hypothetically speaking, if you were to see this whole "life" thing from a different perspective, perhaps from a different dimension or something, with no regards to the concept of time. What would it look like? I shall try to make sense of the idea I was pondering earlier to see if it holds any meaning. To see if it's not just pure nonsense on my part, to see whether it's actually explainable and whether it holds any meaning.

So suppose in a sense, you can see yourself from afar. So suppose there's two of you, the current you (for which we will call Curr) and another you somewhere in a different dimension (which we will call Diff) who can see the current you and all the possible events that will unfold but has no idea of where Curr currently is on his life path. So Diff can see Curr and they are both the same person. Right now, you are Curr and you're alive and kicking. The probability of dying in the past is zero as you're still here. Probability of dying some time in the future is small but gets larger the longer you stay alive, so far so good.

Now suppose you're Diff and you can see Curr and all of his different life paths and how his life will play out depending on his decisions. While you can't see Curr at any one point in time due to the branching effect of his life, you can get the full picture of everything there is to know and all the possibilities of what can happen, just that you can't tell the exact path he will end up in. Suppose at age 10, there's a chance that he will die in a car accident. Then at age 20, there's another chance with a different cause. At age 30, there's yet another one and so on. So suppose Curr is currently 15 years old. His probability of death is zero from now until age 20. Then at age 20, it will increase to 10% and at age 30, it will increase to 15% and so on.

But there's a chance he will not make it to his current age as there is a chance of death at age 10. How will things play out if he left at the young age of 10? From Curr's perspective, everything will end at that point in time. The past will be completely linear and full of certainty while the future will only contain uncertainty as almost nothing is known about it. But from Diff's perspective, things are very different. There is no such thing as a single "end". So if Curr and Diff were the same person and if they could share what they see with each other then... STOP. I think I'm going off on a tangent.

Basically, what I'm trying to say is that if you are Curr and you can see things from Diff's perspective, it will make you appreciate life a lot more as you would knew that there were so many instances where you could have left the world already but didn't. How should I put this, suppose you had a near death experience 5 years ago and you were lucky enough to be saved by someone. To Diff, it's just two different branches in your life path but to the Curr who survived, he should know that there's a real possibility and a high chance that he would have died that day if no one was there to save him. That he was lucky and might be living on "borrowed time" right now.

By knowing that you could have left for good, to me, it just makes me appreciate life a lot more. I mean, consider if things played out differently, you wouldn't be here anymore. Doesn't that make you appreciate life? That it could simply cease one day. That was the gist of what I was trying to convey but I guess that Curr-Diff example was badly chosen, but that was my thought process though, just that it was several times more complicated than what I wrote and extends to a lot more things than just life and death. And to think that I was only thinking about something tea related just before, it's really funny how I jump from one thought to another.

Perhaps one day, I can write a proper entry for this topic. It doesn't feel like I've conveyed what I wanted to but I suppose it's not a bad attempt given how messy and fuzzy my thoughts were just a while ago. By the way, the fact that today is Halloween has no relation to what I wrote as I kinda lost track of what date today is. Can't believe tomorrow is November already...