---
layout: post
title: On making decisions.
---

Yesterday I realized that I have a very funny way of making decisions. Rather than making, it should be justifying decisions. It's a bit hard to explain but it involves a lot of back and forth movement. How should I put it, a lot of internal debate that's quite pointless and not worth the time spent. Decisions that have a very low impact on my life and yet, I'm wasting so much time on them. That time spent is completely unjustifiable and yet, I keep doing exactly that.

What had happened was that I was invited to a small social sports gathering somewhere at 11. I could choose to either go, or not go. At first, I was a bit reluctant to go for several reasons. One, I had to drive there and I don't really fancy doing that. Two, I would have to find parking and again, I don't really like doing that, especially that the place I'm going isn't exactly parking friendly. And three, I'd rather stay at home to be honest. I miss the days I could walk anywhere instead of needing to drive, too bad I moved.

At this point, I was trying to justify staying at home. I know that I don't really want to go, so what would I do instead? I would have a relaxing lunch with my family and not much else to be precise. Then I started thinking, is it really worth it not going? Wouldn't I be doing what I'd normally do on a Saturday? Is it really worth doing that again for yet another day?

All of a sudden, I was hit by another thought. I could use this time and spend it doing things I've been putting off! Things I've been procrastinating on. Convenient isn't it? Seriously, I was actually tempted to not go to the gathering and just stay home and start doing things I've been putting off. That was my justification for not going, of course I'd have to come up with an excuse for not going too but can you believe it? That was my justification. This realization hit me so hard, I just couldn't believe it. How many times have I done this? Far too often.

Then I began thinking things the other way. Consequences of going? Not really much to be honest. As it starts at 11, I might not be able to have lunch and would end up hungry after the event. There's gonna be a bit of traffic to go through and parking to find. Not much else other than that. Consequences of not going? I'd let my friends down. I'd waste my time at home relaxing and not doing much. Maybe I could do some of the stuff I've been meaning to do but seriously, it took an invitation to a gathering for me to realize that I've been procrastinating on them for that long!?

Now let's hypothetically consider the situations. If there was no gathering today, what would happen? I'd spend the day relaxing as usual. It's quite unlikely that I'd be doing stuff I've been putting off. Now consider that a new path has been created and I was invited to a gathering. What would happen? If I don't feel like going, I'd tried justifying it to myself by saying I'd do things I've been putting off, or perhaps I'll end up doing nothing as usual. If I do go, I'd do something different for a change and that's probably good for me. Then by having this realization, I can even act on it after returning from said event. Isn't that a much better choice? In the first case, nothing happens. In the second case, I could either just have that realization, or I could go out and still have keep realization because I tried to justify not going.

So what happened in the end? I went of course! Took quite a bit of effort convincing myself to go. Unfortunately I accidentally gave myself a bit of lower back pain during stretching. I think I might have accidentally pulled something and that pain has been there all day. Don't think it's gonna go away anytime soon as I had this pain before while sitting in the airplane slouched for far too long. Just my luck maybe. What happened after I returned? I did stuff I was putting off. Finished two ebooks I've been meaning to read, one was non-fiction which I stopped halfway a while back and the other was some sort of detective novel, something I got a few years back but never read. And you know what? That novel, or should I say novella, proved to be pretty entertaining and totally worth my time.

Guess it takes a bit of a cold water splash in the face to wake myself up. It's funny since I've been doing this for so long. Back in school, I used to wait till the exams are coming, then I'd start doing all sorts of things like tidying my room, exercising, tinkering with things, trying to feel productive and using that excuse to justify not studying. Did it really took me until now to realize that fact? Perhaps I've realized it a long time ago but it's only now that I finally accepted it. I wonder, will having this realization change anything for me? Perhaps I'm able to start clearing my backlog now.