---
layout: post
title: Runaway cockroach.
---

So today was one of the few rare days where I actually stayed a good few hours back after work. Why? There were a couple of things that had to be done by today and they mostly involve someone who will be leaving tomorrow. Someone who came here a couple of days ago and is leaving tomorrow. Extending his stay is always an option but if I do that then I pretty much failed in my task. By the way, this has nothing to do with cockroaches.

After that exhausting episode today trying to solve an annoying issue involving people and work, I realized something. Vague, I know but I don't want to go into the details. Even hinting at the details is something I really want to avoid. The point is, when faced with an issue like this, something happened. One of the key points here is that I literally can't do anything. I mean, for this issue I'm facing, I need someone else to do it, I can't do it even if I wanted to. Either I'm doomed to fail, or someone comes along and saves the day.

In today's case, someone actually came through and saved the day! And did it in style too! How cool is that? For a moment I actually saw him as a superhero! Well not exactly that but you get my point. That moment when you know you can't do anything and no one is willing or able to help. Couple that with an impending deadline and you'll start feeling helpless. At that moment in time, you are probably in a very vulnerable state. In my opinion anyway, as you are pretty much doomed to fail and there's nothing you can do about it. A bit grim, I know. Still nothing to do with cockroaches though and don't ask me why I chose such a title.

Now what happened next was nothing short of a miracle, in my eyes anyway. When you're in such a vulnerable state, the way you see things can change considerably. I'm not sure how to explain it but anyway, someone appeared and took on the task. He even solved all those annoying issues but that was more on luck and timing than anything. Still, if it wasn't for him, things wouldn't be able to end today and I would in all likelihood fail the first ever solo task I'm assigned. Which isn't necessary a bad thing but it leaves a bad taste in my mouth, especially considering what the guy who's supposed to be leaving tomorrow had to go through.

The lesson here is that you should help others in their time of need, especially if you are able to. Do it. Just do it. They'll really appreciate it. A bit cliche but seriously, I was on the other end today and it really meant a lot. Just help them, even if you have to go through some inconvenience or hassle. The value you're providing the person you're helping is immense and totally worth the effort! What about the cockroach you ask?

Ending that episode was a long drive home followed by food and rain. I arrived home rather late today and proceed with my usual routine. One thing I noticed was... get ready, here it comes... a cockroach in my rubbish bin. I saw a bit of movement in my bin and upon closer inspection, it was a cockroach. So what should I do about it? More importantly, how did it get there in the first place and are there more lying around? To my first question, I simply lift the bin and took it out my room. Put it on the corridor and proceed to pushing it along the corridor with my legs.

Doing that made the cockroach flee from the bin and made a mad dash somewhere. Where did it go? Under the door of my housemate's room. Glad he isn't in at the moment but that mad dash was completely unexpected. Why did I put the bin down and push it with my legs? I was afraid of the cockroach going to my hands. Now the cockroach is probably hiding somewhere in my housemate's room. Completely unintentional but oh well, nothing I can do about it unfortunately. And that is the story of the runaway cockroach.