---
layout: post
title: Non standard keyboards.
---

Using non-standard keyboards can be really annoying sometimes. It makes me wonder why I learned it in the first place, I mean, it'd be a lot easier if I just learned how to type in QWERTY. Seriously, QWERTY is everywhere. Its dominance is so strong that most people don't even know other layouts exist. Some people might have heard of alternative layouts but they might all be thinking about very different things. Some might think that it means the difference between the US and UK variant of the QWERTY keyboard. Others might be thinking about international layouts like the Korean or Russian keyboard where it is used to input other types of alphabets. A few might even be thinking about Dvorak or Colemak layouts where all the keys are rearranged to optimize typing efficiency. If you're not familiar with keyboard layouts, it might be worth reading about them before proceeding, to make it an easier read.

My problem is somewhat a combination of the above keyboards. How should I put this? I didn't learn how to type in QWERTY, I learned Colemak instead about half a decade ago. At that time, I was predominantly typing in English so it made sense to learn a more efficient layout. Quick intro on Colemak, it's an alternative keyboard layout designed for a more ergonomic and efficient touch typing experience in English. My physical keyboard back then was a US variant of the QWERTY keyboard and I did not know anything about other keyboard layouts. The good news for me was that when typing in Colemak, only the position of the alphabets changed. The symbols all remained in the same place as in the US QWERTY keyboard.

Soon afterwards, I moved to UK and the keyboards there were different. I did NOT know that. The alphabet placements were all the same since it's still QWERTY but the symbol placements were a bit different. And that tiny "/" key next to that tiny shift key on the left was extremely annoying. The "@" key was also in a different place along with several other symbol keys. The good news for me was that I have a portable program that changes the keyboard layout from QWERTY to Colemak so all was good. The symbols were all moved to the right places after running that program and I was able to type normally again.

One really annoying thing was that sometimes, the physical keyboard will be the UK variant BUT the keyboard layout in the system settings would be US variant so the keyboard behaves as if it's using the US layout. Example, pressing the "@" on the physical keyboard will not produce "@" on screen. It annoyed the hell out of some people, especially if they don't know anything about system keyboard settings and how to change them.

Sometime after leaving UK, I decided to buy a new laptop and this is where the story starts. See, the laptop I bought was a very unique one indeed. For it was imported and could only be found in certain markets. The laptop in question was the lightest 13.3" laptop in the world as of the time of publication. The built-in keyboard it came with? It was the Japanese variant of the QWERTY keyboard. What does that mean? Like the UK variant, a few of the symbols are in a different position. That's okay as I've got that portable program that can change the layout right? Yes, that's true. All's well that ends well. Or so I thought.

You know that I'm starting Spanish right? And that involves typing Spanish in my computer which means the need to type accented characters like "á" or "ñ" for example. Now bear with me for a while as things might get a bit confusing/pointless and make you wonder what exactly am I trying to tell you. So let's start at the basics. My physical keyboard is the Japanese variant of the QWERTY keyboard. My system keyboard setting is the US variant of the QWERTY keyboard. I'm running my portable keyboard layout program on top of that to change the keyboard from QWERTY to Colemak. Still with me? Now the problem is, how do I type those accented characters?

The first obvious answer I came up with was changing the system keyboard layout to Spanish and work from there. But that will mean I'll have to type in QWERTY as I can't run my portable keyboard program on top of it since it'll overwrite the keyboard and I don't get that "ñ" key anymore. Great, now what? Do I learn QWERTY or find a way to do Spanish Colemak? It turns out, there's a very easy way out. For you see, Colemak is multilingual. I didn't know that at first but if you press "AltGr" or "Alt", I can't remember, together with the relavant keys, you can actually enter accented alphabets. How cool is that?

Just one tiny problem. My physical keyboard doesn't have the "AltGr" key, only one "Alt" key on the left and pressing it did not activate the accented keys. Fortunately, and I do really mean fortunately, I've accidentally found that by pressing the "fn" key before the "Alt" key, I was able to activate the accented characters. Unfortunately this fix is a bit fuzzy, for some reason it only works when I run the portable keyboard on top of the Spanish QWERTY. I'm still experimenting with this issue so let's see where it gets me. On a side note, Caps lock doesn't work as backspace if I overlay the portable keyboard with the Japanese QWERTY.

And that was how I solved this weird keyboard issue almost no one else face. Weird eh? I also have quite a few deadkeys thanks to the physical keyboard. Planning to remap them to something useful sometime soon but I'm not too sure what effect having that portable keyboard overlayed on top of changing the system keyboard settings will do. Sigh, such is the issue of using a non-standard keyboard. It could actually be worse, the problem with using a physical keyboard that conflicts with the system keyboard setting in not only key position but also the number of keys, while using a portable keyboard layout overlay on said keyboard. Ahhh, what a hectic keyboard setup I have. Not that I regret learning Colemak or anything, it's actually very fun typing in Colemak.

The take home message for this post? Be prepared if you're using non-standard layouts, know the trade-offs involved and that you might be limiting yourself to some extent. Know what you're getting yourself into, especially if you combine Colemak/Dvorak with international layouts or layouts with a different alphabet system. For my physical Japanese keyboard, each alphabet key also contains a Japanese character so if I were to type the Japanese character, how will the layout change if I'm overlaying my keyboard with the portable Colemak layout? Stuff like that can really make you wish you've stayed with QWERTY instead. As for me, I'm glad I learned Colemak. It's totally worth the effort!