---
layout: post
title: The thermometer man
---

I was rummaging through an old drawer looking for interesting things to play with earlier this morning. Lots of random stuff were lying around just waiting to be discovered and I happen to come accross an old thermometer. It was one of those classic thermometers, the one with red liquid on the inside. The thermometer tube had no scale and thus it had to be popped into one of those white casings with the scale. To the left of the scale was Celcius and the right was Fahrenheit. It didn't have that big of a range but I hardly knew much about temperature ranges so I went off to play with my new found thermometer.

I put it in cold water and watch the red liquid drop, then I pour hot water over it and watch the liquid raise. It was so amusing to watch the level rise and drop, so much that I got a bit careless and accidentally poured hot water on my hand. It wasn't burning hot or anything, just hot. So I dropped my thermometer, stepped back a bit and let out a quick ouch. I didn't realize that my dog was behind me and I almost tripped on him. He barked a bit and moved away and when I noticed him, I jumped forward and accidentally stepped and broke my thermometer into two.

For some reason, the red liquid in the bulb of the thermometer didn't leak out. It stayed inside the thermometer. I would've expected it to leak or something so I tried tilting the thermometer to pour out the red liquid. It didn't work. I even tried shaking it really really hard. It still refused to move. Weird. So I did the only thing I knew and start pouring hot water on the bulb again. I mean, I just want the liquid inside to come out so I can play with it.

Little did I know, once the liquid started flowing out, it evaporated. Was it supposed to do that? Something strange happened afterwards. The thermometer started reconstructing itself. Right before my very eyes, I saw the red liquid evaporate and turned into both the broken casing and the thermometer tube! I couldn't believe it, just what on earth is going on here? Soon, the thermometer has finished reconstructing itself using the red liquid on the inside and I'm left with my old thermometer again, plus the broken top half from earlier.

Is this some kind of a special thermometer? That was my first thought, it didn't occur to me that I might just be imagining things or that this might all just be a dream even. Perhaps all thermometers work this way. I was so fixated on what happened that I think my brain stopped thinking logically and just burst with excitement on this discovery I made. Seriously, I have to show this to someone. But before that, I had to double check. So I broke the thermometer again, reluctantly. Again, the same thing happened! I tried it again and yet again, it reconstructed itself using the red liquid inside itself. And I just had to tell someone about this...

Soon word got out that I had a very special thermometer that can regenerate itself. People were always asking, how did it do that? Is there some kind of a trick to it? They always want to know how I did it. Honestly, I don't know. Even when I told them that, they rarely believe me and assume that I'm just trying to keep it a secret or something. If I wanted to keep it a secret, I would've just said so! Besides, if I really don't want anyone to know, would I really tell others about it and show it to so many people? They were never satisfied with my answers and the questions just kept on coming. It's annoying and I don't really like dealing with these kind of things. Just leave me alone already!

Everything went downhill when random strangers started contacting me about buying my thermometer. Some were willing to pay lots of money for it, though I seriously doubt why they would want a thermometer that could regenerate itself. Bragging rights probably? It is the only one in the world as far as I know. There's also some scientists and researchers asking if I would mind donating my thermometer for research purposes. They want to know how my thermometer works and perhaps revolutionize the world with self healing materials.

I like stuff to have self healing properties as much as the next guy but at this point in time, I have other worries. For starters, I noticed that the redness of the red liquid in my thermometer has dropped significantly. It was a deep and bright crimson red when I first found it but now, it's been reduced to a rather light and pale red, it's also a bit more translucent now. Just how many times have I broken, I mean, demonstrated my themometer's ability I wonder. Hundreds? Or perhaps even thousands of times? All that reconstruction must have taken its toll on the red liquid by now and I can't help but feel bad for it. Just what have I done?

Worse still, I've been feeling noticably weaker these past few days. Perhaps I've caught a flu or something, at least that's what I thought. I'm also a lot more sensitive to temperature changes now, as if my body can't regulate its temperature anymore. It wasn't until I accidentally scratched off an old scab on my knee that I realized. The blood I'm bleeding is a lot thinner that its supposed to be. It's also quite similar to what I see in my thermometer and it took me a while to realize the significance of this. What have I done to myself? All this time, I've been breaking... myself! The thermometer, it's me! I am the thermometer... how... why... what in the world happened here?

This revelation shocked me, perhaps I'm jumping to conclusions here but seriously, if the thermometer is what I think it is... I woke up. It was nothing more than a dream. A dream about a magical thermometer linked to my own body. It was also one of the few dreams I had and definitely the first I've written down. One thing I would like to say is that dreams are full of holes and inconsistencies and there's no way I could've written a coherent story if I didn't change some parts. Hope you enjoyed it.