---
layout: post
title: A new setup.
---

Guess what? I finally replaced my 7 year old laptop! A huge upgrade too, actually some might see it as a downgrade. For one, there is a significant reduction in the screen size but then again, same goes for the weight. The disk size shrunk by about four times but it's SSD instead of HDD, which is awesome and blazingly fast. The battery can finally last longer than 45 minutes, a lot longer actually, and everything looks new and shiny. I do, however, have to start from scratch again with my setup and everything.

In my old setup, I was using Linux but with my new setup, I'll be using Windows 8 for the time being. Let's just say a combination of slow internet, laziness, low disk space, UEFI and uncertainty as to whether I'd still want to go dual boot or do a full wipe given the low storage available made me unmotivated to install my preferred OS for the time being. Besides, now's a good time to see how things are on the other side of the fence!

Instead of doing a review of this yet-to-be-named new laptop of mine, complaining about all those unintuitive design elements in the OS and praising the awesome speed and battery life, I'd like to talk about the convenience of having a GUI version of GitHub actually installed. Misleading title, I know. When creating a new post entry in my old setup, I'd normally type said post and run that gittyup.sh file to upload it to my account but with the GUI, it's actually a lot easier to use! Just write my post as usual, open the GUI and I can see the changes made and choose what to commit and stuff! I can also see a history of changes made and the best part is that I don't have to login everytime I want to commit something! How convenient is that? Sure there's a bit of security implications to that but still, it sure is convenient.

Of course, I can still do things via the command line but seriously, the GUI is really convenient to have! You can use the tutorial, go play with branches and do lots of stuff I have yet to know about! With all thess upsides, I'm sure you're wondering what the tradeoffs are. I mean, it has to have some downsides right? At the moment, I can't think of any, aside from security. It satisfied my basic needs and it's really convenient so that's it really.

Actually, there is one downside. Okay, it's not really a downside but in my old setup, I have ruby and jekyll installed and I can build my website locally and have the option to upload just the compiled files instead of the source files. What I'm currenly doing in my GitHub account is simply uploading the source files and letting GitHub compile it all for me. While it's simple and all, I actually wanted to try making a compiled version locally and hosting it on a cloud storage service somewhere instead, just to play around with the idea. What's the downside I'm going on about? Jekyll isn't officially supported in Windows. Yeah. It's possible to run it but you know, stuff like this is just so much more "convenient" to do in Linux.

Still undecided about what I should do with the choice of OS in my new setup but for now, I guess it's not a bad idea to play around with the OS I haven't properly use for so many years. Revisit the other side for a bit, who knows what I'll find. I mean, I still have my old laptop, now stuck as a makeshift desktop due to its dying battery. I still use it you know, it's true that it's really old already but it still works and most of my stuff/data is still there. Saved progress of old games I seldom or don't play anymore, random useful programs I use once in a blue moon, my collection of digital junk I've been hoarding since who knows when and lots of random seemingly useful stuff! Now you know why I went for a new laptop with less storage, besides the fact that it's cheaper.