---
layout: post
title: Learning music or the instrument?
---

After playing the ukulele for close to 3 months, mostly on weekends, I feel like I've gain a much better appreciation for music and it was only a few weeks ago that I've made a startling discovery about myself. See, I wasn't exactly sure what I was trying to accomplish here. Now you might be thinking, am I not trying to learn how to play the ukulele? Not exactly. The question here is, am I trying to learn the ukulele through music or am I trying to learn music through the ukulele? Trust me, there's a significant difference between the two.

For the former, I could be doing something as simple as plainly memorizing chords and strumming to the song. I could also look up the tabs or music sheets and play as I'm told. Either way, I'll be making music and with enough practice, I'll be able to play some pretty sweet tunes. Life would be simple and with enough practice and exposure to the songs, I might even start recognizing individual notes and chords and perhaps even learning how to play by ear! That would be pretty cool indeed.

Learning music on the other hand, is something completely different. Granted the ukulele isn't exactly the best instrument to learn music theory. The piano is a much better choice as it shows you intuitively where the notes are and the arrangement alone can visually teach you a lot about scales and chord formations. Also, you will be forced to actually learn how to read music sheets as opposed to the ukulele where the tabs simply show you which string and where to fret in order to get the sound you're supposed to get. However, properly learning music is certainly doable with the ukulele.

If I take this route, I'll be learning scales and how chords are formed. A bit dry sometimes learning about major thirds, perfect fifths and how different frequencies go well together depending on their ratio. The concept of sharps and flats is also interesting, why are there no sharps between B/C and E/F? It's because the original CDEFGAB scale is not evenly distributed across the octave. Why is the A note 440hertz? Why can't it be some other number like 432hertz? Why are the notes arranged in the frequencies they're in and what's with all those roman numerals I keep seeing? This is where I start going off on a tangent and move into the physics of vibration and the history of music. By the time I realize what I'm reading is no longer relevant, that's when I decide I should just stop and go play instead.

As much as I would like to understand music, I don't think it's meant to be scientifically understood anymore. Of course, I could try to but that would defeat the very purpose of playing the ukulele. To have fun and fool around with making awesome tunes. I can't really approach music the way I approach physics despite the link between the two. One thing is certain though. Vibrations, frequencies and signal analysis is something I might dabble in sometime in the future. There's actually such a thing as acoustic engineering!

Here's the epilogue, or rather, the punchline. Music belong to the arts much like painting and language. It's much easier to understand intuitively and rather than going through it scientifically, the imperfection it has for not following hard rules like science simply adds beauty to it. Why are the musical notes distributed in the frequencies the way they're in (read: A 440hertz) and why do major chords sound happy while minor chords sound sad? Why is the Mono Lisa such a famous work of art? Why is English so inconsistent with how through, thorough and rough are pronounced? Can they be scientifically explained? Maybe, I don't know but some answers could be historically explained. Either way, I've certainly gained a much better appreciation for music now.