---
layout: post
title: Leaving things in neglect.
---

Neglect is a dangerous thing. A very dangerous thing indeed. For the past few weeks, I've been neglecting the things I've told myself to do. Things related to me, things I personally want to accomplish. Two of which you should already know, they're Spanish and this blog. There's more of course, perhaps way too much. Another one involves me trying to wake up earlier than I currently do, by about an hour or so, the reason I'll elaborate below. There's also that "game" I've been playing. A game to help me reduce that huge "neglect" I used to have, and still do, in my life. I've also taken a recent interest in programming on my phone as well. That's five things running in parallel and five things I've been neglecting.

I don't know about you but that sounds like an awful lot of things to do for someone who's working full time. All of the things mentioned above would take commitment and doing them in parallel is NOT a good idea. Not only that but most evenings I come home tired. Exhausted from work, sometimes out of frustration or things not going well, sometimes out of the sheer volume of things going on that day and sometimes out of the energy spent doing my tasks, be it productively or not. For the past few weeks, I've been coming home will an almost non-existent will to do anything other than to read/watch something online. And so begins the downwards spiral known as neglect.

Which brings me to that waking up earlier habit. I figure that if I wake up just an hour earlier, I could use that time to do any one of the tasks I wanted to do. Easier said than done of course. Every attempt, bar the first two, ended up as an utter failure. While the first two attempts went splendidly, in the next few attempts I managed to wake up on time but had no drive to do anything. Since then, I find myself dreading the morning more and more. As a side effect, I've been waking up later and later as if my body was trying to protest, it's such a self defeating mechanism.

I won't go into my recent interest in programming on android but let me just say that one day, I find myself wanting an app to perform a certain function or calculation on my phone. To display a certain information. Unfortunately, no such app exist and I figure that it wouldn't be too hard to create it myself. Challenging but definitely doable, I have done some programming before anyway. The hardest part in this? Finding the time to learn and familiarize myself with the code and the development environment. I would need solid chunks of time and the ability to focus for that, something which I find myself lacking these past few weeks. Also, this task is in direct competition with Spanish and blog writing for my time and concentration. Not exactly the ideal situation now is it? In the end, all three of them were neglected for quite some time.

That "game" I mentioned I was playing to help reduce a huge "neglect" in my life? I don't know what it's formally called but it's basically a game where I create a list of "targets" and try to move them forward to the current month. A friend catch up game if you will. First I create a list of potential targets, people I want to catch up with. Then I catch up with them and put their names on the current month. There's a "board" with 12 squares, each representing a month and the goal is to move as many targets to the current month as possible. So far, I'm still at a single digit number for this month with another single digit number from last month. See, the "neglect" I'm having is that I don't catch up with most of my friends and I'm trying to change that. Especially when distance is a factor and face to face meetings are impossible. Old friends just began drifting off, never to be contacted again, and eventually neglected. While I'm part of the MSN generation, I didn't really take part in it and so, I suck at online chats and there lies one of my weakness in maintaining contact. Lately, this game has also been neglected but it's the least neglected one.

And now I ask myself, what was the point of this post? To show that I've failed at my personal tasks? That I aimed a bit too high, causing my bow to snap and hurt myself? That I should start smaller and eliminate a few things in my plate? That too much stuff going on at the same time can cause a mental overload leading to neglect which is another way of saying I need a break from all this? That I should prioritize better? I don't know, I can't really conclude anything solid here. Let's just say writing them down helped put some prespective in all this. Perhaps work-life balance is something I should strive for first, but in my case I see it more as work(job)-work(personal)-life(leisure) balance for some reason. Either way, it's time I bring some of those tasks out of their neglect phase.