---
layout: post
title: Spanish one month mark.
---

It's been a month since my bold claim to learn Spanish. So how did it go? Before that, let's do a quick recap on how I initially planned to do that. The original plan was to start listening and practice pronunciation, to get use to how the language sounds like. Then I will attempt to translate whatever raw Spanish coming my way and try to make sense of it using whatever resources I can find on the internet. So how did that go? Let's see...

It wasn't a complete and utter waste of time. Though I really have to say, I can't judge how effective that method was for several reasons. One, there's a limit to what I can do in a month. Two, I'm not even doing it regularly so it doesn't really matter what method I use as I didn't put enough time into it in the first place. And three, trying to translate raw Spanish without knowing anything? It's pretty darn challenging.

Here's a rough breakdown on what I did. For the first week, I tried watching Spanish films. They were a bit challenging to find due to the subtitles. First of all, I'd have to find those with either English or Spanish subtitles, preferably Spanish or both and finding Spanish subtitles proved a bit difficult. Then there comes the problem of using the Spanish subtitles. Most of them were hard coded into the video so I can't simply copy and paste it to read it all in one go. Not exactly the most convenient resource to use if you plan to translate yourself. Relying on the English subtitles isn't exactly a good thing as my plan was to try and translate it myself.

In the next two weeks, I discovered music. Spanish songs to be precise and they're so much more convenient and easier to use. The Spanish lyrics are extremely easy to find compared to movie subtitles. It's a lot more accessible too, imagine my joy when I discovered this. Lyrics, in text form and not embedded in some impossible to extract video files!

Unfortunately, I didn't make much progress and things were moving really slowly. While I can listen better now and probably pronounce things correctly to some extent, it is still difficult for me to actually understand or talk in Spanish. Translating the text myself also proved to be quite tedious and dull at times. One problem is that while I can learn random words here and there, I can't piece them together since I'm not familiar with how Spanish is structured. Especially verbs where the same base word can take so many different forms when conjugated for different purposes. Also, the accent is more important than I thought. Stressing the accent at the wrong part of the word can sometimes result in another word with a different meaning. 

In the last week just before the one month mark, I started going through some of the basics of Spanish grammar in the hopes that I can get a better understanding to how things are structured. For example, the difference between a question and a statement is that their orders are reversed. In English, you would say, "This blog is awesome" as the statement and "Is this blog awesome?" as the question. In Spanish, the statement would be the same but the question would be something like "Is awesome this blog?". Also, "the red apple" becomes "the apple red". Grammar wise, I've also learned that there is a lot of conjugations going on with the verbs. You have the usual past tense, present tense and so on but you'll have to double it as there's one past tense for you to use when referring to yourself, basically I, and one past tense for you to use when referring to any other one person, such as he/she/you. Then you have to double it again for the plural forms, so there's another past tense for you to use on yourselves, basically we instead of I, and another past tense for you to use on other people, such as they. Isn't that fun? There's so many ways to say "wrote" depending whether I wrote it or he/she/you wrote it or we wrote it or they wrote it. Four different ways to say "wrote". How cool is that?

So what's next after this one month mark? Continue of course! I don't think I have any say in the learning method anymore, I'll just use whatever is convenient. There is one major problem I've encountered and this really goes without saying. I mean, I already mentioned it a few paragraphs ago. I'm not really doing this regularly enough. I can do it for long periods of time, sure. But I can't keep it up consistently. I'm prone to procrastinating every now and then. Get lazy or purposely distracted every now and then. I don't have the discipline to keep at it. But I'm still going to continue, I just have to find a way fix it. It's a recurring problem though. Perhaps I should set aside Spanish and tackle this procrastination problem first but from past experience, I can never get rid of it. It always comes back. Always. So I'm just gonna keep at it and see what happens at the two months mark.