---
layout: post
title: On music and language.
---

Have you ever realize how similar music and language are? One could actually say that music is a language, a language that is better at conveying feelings and emotions than any other verbal language. Of course, songs have lyrics that help do that and music with lyrics combine the best of both worlds. Even in a purely instrumental piece of music, it does a really superb job at making the listener experience a wide range of sensations depending on the music. Still not convinced that music and language are similar? What is a language? In most cultures, it is a series of sounds made by the mouth of the speaker in an attempt to communicate something to the listener. What is music? In most cultures, it is a series of sounds made by an instrument (be it drums, strings, horns or even the human mouth) in an attempt to communicate something to the listener.

If you think about it, sound is like the most popular medium of communication, excluding the internet and other modern technologies. How do you think early humans communicate with the absence of any formal languages? Probably the same way we would if we meet someone who we don't share any common language with. By using a translator app, I mean, by using gestures and making or mimicking random sounds in the hopes that they'll understand what we're trying to say. Just look at how animals communicate. Birds chirp to talk to each other, be it greetings or warnings. Why do you think lions roar? To let others know its territory. Dogs bark violently to ward off unwanted intruders while they bark happily when they see their owners holding a ball soaked with their saliva. Similarly, cats meow differently depending on whether they saw something threatening like a snake, or whether they're just hungry and trying to convince you that lunch should be served twice today.

So what am I trying to say? Sound is a very useful medium for communication and living beings are somehow hardwired to respond to them. Just look at how we're able to deduce certain animal sounds, like barking for example, despite not speaking Doggish or whatever language dogs speak. From there, you can see the connection sound makes with language and what better sound to listen to than music? In language, each series of sounds have a more or less defined set of meanings. In music, there's a lot of subtleties and complexities that most people sort of understand but can't quite put it in words. Try watching an epic fight scene without the epic soundtrack playing in the background. It's gonna feel pretty empty I tell ya. Even a muted horror film doesn't feel as scary, same for romance and mystery films. There's just something compelling about how music sounds that we can't quite describe. In a way, it is a lot more effective in communicating certain things to the listener in ways a formal language can never hope to accomplish. Music is also one of the few things different cultures all over the world have in common. We might not speak each other's language but we can certainly understand each other's music.

Still, what am I trying to say here? What's the takeaway from this connection between music and language? It's mostly just food for thought. Language allows for more practical uses whereas music seems a bit less practical unless you plan to join the music industry. It's a shame most people don't really know music like they know their languages, meaning they can speak but they can't create music. Remember my Spanish project that I started last December? Here's a quick update, it didn't survive past the 3 month mark. I pretty much stopped it nearing the end of February this year. Why? That's because I picked up music.

See, late February this year, I attended a two weeks long course at a neighboring country. It sounds far until I tell you that it's just a two hour drive from where I work. I was planning to write a post about the mountain of stuff that happened during those two weeks but I've kept putting it off. Soon is all I can say. Anyway, in the first few days of those two weeks, I went into a music store and bought an ukulele which I started playing and practicing at the hotel on most nights. Since then, I've pretty much stopped my Spanish project and switched over to the ukulele project. All I can say is that the ukulele is a lot more fun and the excitement I felt from learning Spanish has diminished significantly. Looks like I ended up with option D, try for a while until a more appealing project appeared. No worries though, I'll get back to it someday but right now, I'm prioritizing the ukulele!

I was partially expecting this already as I had this desire to learn music since before leaving for uni. Back then, I planned to get a piano during my uni days but it didn't happen. Too expensive. Then I planned to get it after I started working but again it didn't happen. This time, for a different reason. Portability. As you might know, the piano isn't exactly portable. As I wasn't ready to commit to an instrument just yet, I took up Spanish as it really appealed to me back then. One thing led to another and I soon stumbled across someone who learned how to play the ukulele in just 20hrs, that then led to a rather famous Hawaiian ukulele player I find simply inspiring and I soon found myself craving the ukulele. Then the course happened and I found a music store which happens to sell ukuleles and fast forward to today, I'm progressing rather well I dare say. 

In fact, I've even convinced one of my friends to pick up the ukulele as well! And just today, I bought my second ukulele. I might have contacted UAS (Ukulele Acquisition Syndrome) but this second ukulele has a built in tuner and an amp connection! Yes, it's electro acoustic unlike my first ukulele which was acoustic and I had to tune it with my horribly imprecise phone tuner app as I was too cheap to buy a proper tuner. The good news is, the combined cost of both the ukuleles is just around 45kg (roughly 15+30) which seems reasonable and I do wonder if you know how to convert that.