---
layout: post
title: Know exactly what you are committed to.
---

I had a realization a couple of days ago. That I might be committed to the wrong things and perhaps even for the wrong reasons. That I might be a bit lost with all the confusion going on. Recently I was stuck in a semi foggy and dazed state of mind as my mind simply refused to focus. It felt like I was only half awake, doing things in a half baked fashion. Anyway, back to that commitment thing I was talking about. Be warn though, I used the word 'commit' so many times that even I'm sick of it. If you don't want that to happen, feel free to skip to the last paragraph.

Here's a little background info on how I made that realization. On the weekends, I'd normally play a certain racket sport with a few of the guys from work. After we play, I'll sometimes go to a food court to get something to eat. At the food court, there's a bunch of senior citizens playing chess and I'll join for a game or two whenever I eat there. So far so good. Now, that has been my routine for quite a while now and it's only recently that I realized this.
 
For the racket sport, the guys that play there are mostly regulars and are quite good at the game. I only join them in the weekends but they also play on weekdays. Whenever we play, they'll sometimes teach me bits and pieces on how to properly do the backhand, the proper footwork and stances and even the differences between the different types of rackets and so on. They know their stuff and are way more serious about the game that say, someone like me who's only interested in playing for fun. While I do enjoy the game and all, I'm not as invested in it as they are and really, I'm just not that committed to it.

And here's the thing, because they teach me and help point out my mistakes, it makes me want to commit to it, out of both gratitude and a sense of obligation. Otherwise, I feel bad not trying to improve given the amount of help they've given me. Not to mention that occasionally I'd even ask them for tips and pointers at how to do certain shots better. As a result, I've partially committed myself to it. Now I can turn a complete hundred eighty and start telling you how you can get someone to be more serious and interested about something you're passionated about but that's a topic for another time.

In my mind, there's two main types of commitment, one where you commit out of a sense of duty or obligation and another one where you commit because you really want to. In this case, it's a mix of both. I don't want to get better badly enough but there's that expectation from the guys that I'll continue playing regularly and eventually get better. So I'm stuck in between the two and quite unsure of what I should do. I want to get better but I don't want to spend too much time on it. I just want to make it a casual, just doing it for fun, kind of thing.

Similarly for the case with chess, the folks I played with are better players and are a lot more invested in the game than me. Heck, they play there almost everyday! The same effect also occurred here, the more I play with them, the more they make me want to commit to the game. It's as if I have to get my act together and improve, else it's like an insult to them if I don't. In this case, I really don't want to commit to it, I just want to play for fun, free of expectations from others to commit and improve myself.

At this point, I'm wondering if it's my mindset that's preventing me from just playing for fun. Sure they're pushing for me to get better, who doesn't want other people to get better? Yet, that exact thing is pressuring me to decide between giving up the game and actually committing to it and get better. Somehow, I find that I'm starting to dread it. As if there's this sludge I have to struggle my way through. As if I don't want to live up to their expectations. It's this exact feeling that made me think, perhaps I'm committed for the wrong reasons? Perhaps even, I'm wasting my precious time and energy being committed to the wrong things? Was this misalignment between what I wanted to do and what I'm spending most of my time doing the main cause of my hazy state of mind?

I realize that perhaps I should just loosen up. That I'm trying to live up to the expectations of others instead of my own. That I need to change my mindset, change my belief so that instead of thinking "I'm not making enough effort to improve despite their help and guidance" as an insult to them, I should change it and thank them for giving me help and guidance despite not making enough effort. The former mindset implies that there is an ulterior motive in trying to help people, else why would it feel like an insult if the people you're trying to help doesn't improve?

Anyway, time for the epilogue. Or rather, the punchline to this whole post. Take a good look at your life and note the things you're committed to or trying to commit to, be it your job, your hobbies, the people you hang out with, exercise, eating healthy, social networks or even random smartphone games. Note how much time and effort you're spending just to commit to them and why. Which of the two types of commitment is it, are you doing it because you wanted to or because you feel obliged to? Or perhaps you might even be addicted to some of them. In which case, that would be the third type of commitment, addiction. As I was saying, if you're doing something because you feel obliged to and it causes a lot of undue struggle, perhaps now is a good time to stop and reevaluate whether it is worth keeping at it.