---
layout: post
title: Sending people to the future.
---

You know what's interesting? Sending people to the future. It's such a radical idea! The thought occurred to me earlier this week when I realized that two of the trainees were gone. Poof! I was expecting them to go, they have this few-months-long event at somewhere-not-too-far-away but I thought they were leaving next week and not this week. So be it, they'll return anyway. They can only come back stronger, referencing the said event they're attending and trying to get my reader(s) to make the unconscious association between "future" and "getting stronger". Have you realize what the title is suppose to mean yet? I think I threw in a few good leads and perhaps equal parts noise for good measures.

Sending people to the future, that's an alternative way of thinking about farewells and goodbyes. Think about it, you bid farewell to your friend and that friend momentarily disappears from your life, you will not have any contact with said friend anymore as they are gone. What's interesting is that on the flip side, they also face the same issue as you are now gone from that their life. 

Disclaimer: As the world becomes increasingly connected, distance matters little now and bidding farewell nowadays does not mean having no contact anymore. Instead, it might mean that you will gain a much better understanding of their diet, eating habits and overindulgence in fancy looking cakes as that's pretty much the only contact you'll have.

Both of you diverged and will now live a life independent of one another, that is, until a convergence is met and a reunion occurs. What happens then? For one thing, you are meeting your friend in the future relative to the farewell, or the current present but that doesn't pack the same punch as saying the future. From your perspective, your friend has probably changed. It may or may not be noticeable but a change is very likely to have occurred. Think about it, your friend had just lived a life that's independent of you. Between the farewell and the reunion, so much has happened that it'd be strange if there was no change. You are quite literally meeting your friend from the future, in the future! Of course, the opposite is also true and your friend is seeing a different you, the you from the future! 

Disclaimer: I like saying "the future!" a lot. The concept of past and future is completely relative to the time frame of when it was mentioned. For example, saying the future in the past can refer to the present. I find this concept fascinating and would love to abuse it to change my perspective of time every now and then. I mean, I can claim that I came from 10.28AM 12th April 2006 just to answer the question my teacher asked, "Where do you see yourself in 10 years?", and to that I answer, "In exactly 10 years, I see myself sitting in front of a computer trying to trend a few parameters for several problematic machines."

There is also this general positive association of growth and improvement with the future. Things such as the advancement of technology and medicine, overall improvement in hygiene and safety and whatnot. Just think how a typical person from the 19th century will react when brought here to the 21st century. The change in how society views certain sensitive topics, how people think differently and view the world differently, and most important of all, see this apple I'm holding? You may not be able to see it so just play along and imagine it. This apple here was grown all the way from the other side of the world and guess what? They flew it all the way here just to sell it to me for less than a dollar each!? Mindblowing isn't it? The amount of stuff we take for granted. Of course the future isn't without any downsides, but that's for another time.

As I was saying, when giving farewells to others, it may be worth thinking it in terms of sending them to the future. Especially when it's uncertain whether you'll ever meet each other again. This way, when a reunion does happen, treat it as meeting their future selves in the future. The optimistic view we have of the future thinking that their lives can only get better and they can only get stronger is something I find very appealing. Adding the word future really does brighten things up in a very optimistic way. That said, I'm off to the future now. Farewell, fare well.