---
layout: post
title: True colors.
---

Have you ever heard of the expression "So you've finally showed your true colors!" before? No? You're asking me whether this is a figure of speech for something along the lines of showing one's true intent? Now you're wondering whether it's more towards skin color as if it's normal for people to hide it with cream or sunburn? And now you're asking if there's such a thing as false colors? Well... let's just say you're not totally wrong on everything and I find your first question very intriguing.

The concept of true colors originated from pirate ships. Yes, you read that right. Pirate ships. The story goes like this. Back in the old days, the only way to identify which country or group ships belong to was by the flags, or colors, they put up. As such, it was easy to trick people. Any pirate ship could sail under a fake flag (color) from another country or group and easily infiltrate enemy base, provided they hide their wooden legs, metal hand hooks, eye-patches, talking parrot, pirate hats and most importantly, they all stop talking like pirates. No one can tell the difference! 

Eventually, the pirates would put up their real pirate flag and show their true colors to the enemy. Why would they do such a thing? I don't know and frankly speaking, I think it's a bit dumb. Why give themselves away to the enemy? Unless they were forced to reveal themselves, like for example, the enemy thought their footsteps sounded a bit too wooden or found it strange how they used their left hand without moving their fingers, as if it's really a hook underneath their gloves. Perhaps parrot feathers were found on deck as well as the pirates' abnormally large supply of crackers. Well whatever the reason, pirates do like showing their real flags once they get real close to their enemies.

That's what it means to show one's true colors, in the sense that you reveal who you really are and your true nature. On the flip side, I find that "showing one's true intent" can also be an implication from the expression. In fact, I much prefer the "intent" version. Nevertheless, now you know what it means but hopefully you already knew it all along from the start. I just wanted to tell that pirate story. You can stop reading here and skip to the fun facts.

To tell you the truth, I don't like the concept of true colors. I don't think there's one true color for how each and every one of us behaves, there might be a default color which could be the true color or perhaps your instinct is instead. Yes, that might be why it's true colors, plural. Still, every single time I heard that expression used, it's used to refer to someone being sly, behaving wildly or doing something that's generally considered as bad or unfair. Example, when someone who's generally quiet behaves loudly or wildly, someone would use that expression. But when the opposite happens and someone who's generally wild finally behaves for once, no one in their right mind would use that expression. Interesting isn't it? It's as if it's a one way valve. 

Perhaps in a lot of ways, it does emulate the pirate behavior. You don't see sailors using a pirate flag and then claiming that it's not their real flag and that they're actually a group of respectable merchants from a respectable country. It's a bit of a double standard, bad can easily pretend to be good but for the good to pretend to be bad, there's very little merit in it and it just doesn't make sense most of the time.

You might be thinking, what exactly am I trying to say here and why don't I like that expression. Is it because it has double standards? Good question. Yes, I dislike it because it's heavily biased to things generally perceived as bad or negative as well as the double standard most people seem to have for it. I also believe the expression to be imprecise. There are no true colors, we all have different colors based on the different circumstances we're in. You don't behave in a courtroom as you do in a party do you? Neither to your friends do you behave as to random strangers. Even to different friends, there is a variance in behavior due to the difference in personality traits and interests. 

You could try to behave as consistently as possible but that is nigh impossible due to the psychological bias of your unconscious mind. One of the strengths we have is the ability to adapt to situations so why not play that strength instead of suppressing it? As long as you stay true to yourself, your values and know what you intentions, use your adaptability to your advantage. But wait, wouldn't staying true to yourself mean staying true to your color as in your nature and who you really are? Doesn't that contradict your earlier statement of not having true colors? Why yes it does. But like I said, I just don't like how people used it almost exclusively for bad behaviors as it doesn't really reflect your true true colors. Maybe it's just human nature to make that assumption just like what sailors did to the pirates.

I'm not really sure what to conclude from all this really. Humans are adaptable and show a wide range of colors depending on the circumstances? The expression is horribly misused in a bias way? The expression has been heavily influenced by the original pirate story? Rather than true colors, it's better to see it as different sides of a person or the various different colors a person has? It's hard to behave consistently towards everything? I like pirates and just wanted to write about that story? I was reading about an article about hair dye titled "true colors", then one thing led to another and I find myself rambling on about the expression and even finding its origin? Creating random food for thought? Whatever the conclusion is, I hope you found it entertaining at the very least.

Fun fact 1: True colors is also a song, a film (coincidentally there's also a film titled "false colors"), a TV series, a non-profit organization, a personality profiling system, a company that makes cosmetic products and etc.

Fun fact 2: True colours (not to be confused with "true colors") is a novel and the name of several music albums. You can probably guess that these have a different origin compared to fun fact 1.

Fun fact 3: True color (not to be confused with "true colors") is sometimes known as 24-bit color which is the specification of the color of a pixel on a display screen using a 24-bit value, 2^24 or 16,777,216 possible colors. False color, on the other hand, refers to a group of color rendering methods used to display images in color which were recorded in the visible or non-visible parts of the electromagnetic spectrum. Yes, fun fact 3 was copy pasted.