---
layout: post
title: Lessons from urgency.
---

Recently I came to realize that I'm not exactly used to handle urgent tasks. I'll get to what I mean in a minute or so, depending on your reading speed. Anyway, a bit of background info. See, I work as a junior engineer in the energy industry and what happened rather recently was that one of our machines had a bit of a hiccup. That hiccup, while seemingly minor at first, led to the discovery of a couple other hiccups that were a bit more of a concern, which in turn led to the discovery of something rather worrying. The end result was, we lost about a week trying to solve this hiccup and that was one of the worst week I've ever had so far. 

When the hiccup was first discovered on the morning of the first day, it hit me rather badly. By that I mean my mind started whining about not wanting to stay late that day and I hardly got anything done. Yes, I know whining doesn't actually do anything but I still can't stop my mind from doing so. To make matters worse, tomorrow was supposed to be a public holiday. The prospect of having to stay late today and having to come to work tomorrow, on a public holiday, really doesn't make the case any better. To cut the story short, I had to come to work tomorrow and I was facing so much internal resistance about it. Felt seriously horrible to the point that I started cursing on my drive home. The fact that I was running low on fuel and the nearby station was closed at this hour ain't making me feel any better. Strangely though, my anger wasn't actually directed to anyone, or even anything, it's a bit like shouting in an empty field just to let out my emotions. There's nothing I can do to change my situation so I guess in the end, I just had to let it all out and that was me doing exactly that.

On the second day, I showed up late. Kinda like a form of rebellion though. I'd felt really bad if I don't show up, yet I feel the same if I do show up. So what I found was that by compromising on the time, it actually made me feel better. At least I get to enjoy a somewhat peaceful and relaxed morning and yes, it's very selfish indeed but it's way better than both skipping work and having a cranky me show up. I needed that time to cool down. It was a lot more liberating this way and I think this might be when I finally accepted the situation. Once I acknowledged the current unavoidable reality, everything felt surprisingly calm and peaceful again, despite the semi busy state everyone is in. Unfortunately, not much could be done today due to the fact that it's a public holiday and it's really hard to ask for assistance or support when practically no one else is at work. We had to call and some weren't picking up their phones. Can't blame them though.

On the third and fourth day, there were a lot more ups and downs in my state of mind, often oscillating between being accepting and being rather distasteful about this whole hiccup incident. For one thing, I really respect everyone who were able to stay till late on four consecutive nights and still arrive early the next day without any visible signs of distress or annoyance. I however, don't really fancy the thought of arriving home, only to shower, sleep and wake up early the next day ready for more work. It really breaks work life balance, not to mention several of the habits I'm trying to sustain. It really made me appreciate the folks who work in emergency response and those who had to work till late or in shifts. Doctors, ambulance drivers, security personnels and even 24hr establishments like restaurants, supermarkets and taxi drivers. What would happen if some of them started acting like me and whine about having to work extended hours? The value of having extended or even 24/7 coverage is indeed high, yet on the flip side, I've never really considered the sacrifice those providing said service had to make.

Long story short, the issue was temporarily fixed and the machine is running yet again. My story about the situation ends here, and thus began the three major lessons I've learned from this incident. The first and most obvious one is that my gut reaction to having to deal with this situation is absolutely horrible, I really don't know what to say to myself. It's only after experiencing such a situation that I realize just how bad it was. In hindsight, it would have been a lot easier to simply accept it and move on but somehow, my instincts would not allow me to do that despite knowing full well whining doesn't solve anything. In the future, I dare not say I'll behave any better but at least it won't hit me by surprise anymore having tasted this experience once. I expect I'll be able to handle it better with more composure next time but only time will tell.

The second major lesson one was the appreciation and gratitude I now have to those who work extended hours and the sacrifice they make in providing their services. I used to take them for granted, that some restaurants and convenient stores would be 24/7 and vital services like the ambulance, police and firefighting would always be available. It's usually when you have a taste of what it's like on the other side, the side providing the service, do you truly appreciate it the effort they put in. If there's one thing this incident taught me, it's that people who respond to calls on that public holiday and actually came to help are awesome. Those who didn't, I don't blame them as depending on circumstances, not everyone are able to do so and prioritizing work is not always the right thing to do.

There's actually only two major lessons I've learned but three sounds like a better number so let's see. Other than work related ones, perhaps the biggest lesson was that I still have a long way to go. I thought I understood myself well enough and trusted myself to react better but that didn't turn out to be the case. When placed on the spot, I didn't behave in the way I thought I would. It actually seems like there's still a lot of things I haven't exactly accepted yet and it would really be in my best interest to reexamine myself. Just who am I right now and what do I want to be like? There's a lot of inconsistencies between what I want to be and what I actually am. Hypocrisy much? Perhaps I'm still not completely honest with myself, or maybe I'm lacking in integrity?

There's that old saying, a little goes a long way. What I've learned from dealing with this urgent incident really woke me up. There's still a lot I don't know and the only way to go about this is a little at a time. Why? Because, that's probably the most surefire way to go about it. A little at a time, eventually all the gaps will be filled. Beats rushing all the way and not having any clue as to what's still missing. 