---
layout: post
title: Sony data wipe.
---

The story began one day when I found out my phone was running low on storage space. Figures, I do have a lot of junk there, useless old whatsapp photos and videos, lots of old cache stuff, apps I don't use anymore and so on. One thing I didn't expect to find was that system data took up about 1GB of my free space. That's quite a lot of space there, in the form of logs, and they can't be deleted without root permission. And so began my misadventure in trying to reclaim storage space on my phone.

Foraging around the internet, it seems like there's no easy way to clear the logs without root access. Every article either points toward rooting and manually delete them, or dialing *#9900#, which I've apparently memorized after reading it so many times, but that only works for Samsung phones and not Sony. In the end, I gave up and decided to just root my phone. 

I've rooted my old phone before so I don't actually mind doing it with my current phone, but little did I know my current phone is a bit different. First, I have to unlock the bootloader and instructions were available on the Sony website. I had a couple of hiccups in setting it up, mainly because of driver issues and trying to install an unsigned driver. After that was sorted, I happily proceed with unlocking the bootloader. What I didn't know was that after unlocking the bootloader, my phone will do a factory reset and wipe out my whole internal storage.

While I wasn't surprised the OS reset itself, I was very shocked that my internal storage was wiped. The last time I did it with my old phone, all the data in the internal storage was left untouched. This time, for some reason, the whole internal storage was wiped. 

To be fair, it did warn me in the instructions but I must have misread it somehow. And from there, I lost everything in my phone, all those old pics, random app settings and saved data. All gone. Stangely enough, I don't feel devastated. In fact, I don't feel bad at all. Maybe it's cos I can't remember what I have in my phone. When I try to think, I can't recall any important data there. Most of the important stuff came from my laptop anyway. Aside from all those pics, I don't think I lost much. Even the pics, ever since changing to this new phone, I don't remember taking any important or breathtaking pictures so all seems to be in good order.

One thing that really surprised me is that whatsapp actually managed to restore all my messages and pics. Who knew? For most of my other apps, I had to reinstall them and login again. That's it, perhaps that's the beauty of having things in remote servers instead of being stored locally. In fact, I might go as far as say it's better this way. I got rid of quite a lot of junk and things I'm generally indecisive about getting rid of. In fact, this experience actually made me want to start doing some serious cleaning up on all my other devices and life in general.

I achieved my original goal of reducing storage on my phone so not all is lost. The worst part in all this is the system data log files I want to delete actually increased from around 1GB to 1.4GB. Sigh, and here I thought the problem would get rid of itself. Looks like I still have to root to clear it out, but I can put it off for another time. I've got something more important to do.

Lessons from this accidental wipe. One, always do proper backup. I've been aware of this for so long now but never did it. Always putting it off. Well, now I have a reason to do a proper backup. Two, losing all the data on my phone doesn't hurt that much. Of course, all the data there weren't that important to begin with, but it still demonstrates something. Even if the worst case scenario occurs, I'm still fine because I don't have much to lose. My laptop is a different story though. Three, the cloud is extremely helpful as it's basically a hassle free backup plan. 

I've also gained a much better understanding of my relationship with data. There were so many apps in my phone that I didn't feel like deleting even though I don't use them anymore. For reasons like I might need them some time in the distant future or that I'd just rather keep/horde it for now. Now that they're all wiped out, I don't miss them. Heck, I can't remember half of them and I feel relieved, like a great weight has been lifted off me. That might explain why I'm low on storage space as well. The point is, sometimes I actually have irrational attachment to certain apps or data junk, it would've been so much better if I'd just remove them in the first place.

In addition to that, I started asking myself, why do I have all these apps in the first place? Some are rather useful tools to have but I hardly use them, if at all. So why keep them? It made me think and redefine how I actually used my phone and how I want to use my phone. My new setup now, compared to before the wipe, is so much simpler. Just a few core apps I use a lot on the home screen. Everything else is hidden in the app drawer. Before, I arranged everything neatly in folders in my home screen and I have this overview to show me all that I have, even if I don't use them much. Now, my setup is so much more simplistic and it feels so liberating!

Going forward, I aim to do this for all my devices. Rethink how I use them. What do currently I use my phone for? Mainly web browsing and sending messages, plus some time wasters. What do I want to use my phone for? Web browsing, communicating with others and utilizing my phone as a note taker and organizer. I still want to be able to use my phone to do all those tiny little tasks fulfilled by the multitude of apps I have, but I'll hide them all in the app drawer instead of organizing them into nice folders. Why? Because I'll eventually forget about them if I don't see them. And if I forget about them, it's easier to remove them. If I see them all the time, I can't help but feel like I should keep them in case I need them, simply because they keep popping up in my mind every now and then. If I don't see them, it becomes so easy to just say, hey I remember this app. It's been forever since I last used it, I'll just remove it now. Separate the nice to haves and the essentials, clearly define them and set them apart.

For my tablet, what do I want to do with it? Good question. Currently I'm using it for web browsing, time wasters, reading and learning. I'm actually planning to get a bluetooth keyboard and use it for writing. As if my laptop isn't enough for me. The question now is, what do I want to do? Mainly writing and learning. The tablet is a much better platform for learning. 

As for other aspects of my life, I could really do some tidying up as well. Cleaning mostly, and the transition to minimalism. To purge out the junk, clearly split the essentials and nice to have. Think of how I want to do things and create the ideal setup. Buy a hard disk and do proper backup and a multi-device bluetooth keyboard. Yup, sounds about right. 

Written 17 Nov 2016
