---
layout: post
title: Bursting with rage
---

An audience with the managers, people whose salary outclass mine by orders of magnitude. A completely different pay grade with responsibilities beyond what I'm currently capable of. It was 3:45 am in a different timezone, and I'm sitting in the same room with half a dozen of these so-called managers, trying to appeal to them on something they rejected several months ago.

The thing that made me burning mad was not that they rejected it yet again. It's that they assumed everything was my fault and refused to hear otherwise. The first appeal happened early this year, it was rejected and I was asked to complete a few action items to send for circulate in one month's time. What happened next you ask? I did the action items, submitted it to projects for review and do you know how long it took for them to review it? Frigging months.

I even had to drop by their office to sit them through it, they asked for several amendments and we go through the same cycle yet again and it took them another few months to review. What can I do? They're a very busy department. Finally, the circulation was done sometime in Q3 and it was yet again rejected. It really made my blood boil when I heard that, not because of the rejection itself but the reason behind the rejection. It was rejected due to the amendments I had to make. 

One was cost related, instead of saying there are no additional running costs to using it, I was told to mention that there were no additional running costs external to my department. Apparently, it was better this way, so says the guy doing the reviewing. He also told me to hide a few unrelated costs as it clutters up the slides. Unfortunately, that made the managers question whether or not there are any additional costs that I'm trying to hide. So much for his brilliant suggestions.

Another one was on the savings. To make it sound more impressive, I was told to convert the hours saved into the number of employees saved. Brilliant move by Mr. Reviewer yet again. Until the managers asked if they can straight away fire those employees after implementing this project. Hell no, what a loaded question that is. Do they really think that if this project can save X employees Y hours per year per person, it means they can fire those X employees? 

I feel like they're just trying to find any random points and blame everything on it, just to get away with having to make the decision. Seriously, it's like they're trying to set you up for failure every single time. To be frank, I don't want to do this project. The only reason as to why I'm doing this in the first place is because I'm told to by my boss. And personally, I only want to do this because I want the outcome of the project. 

Only when I was halfway through the project did all sorts of dramas began unfolding. Dramas related to the history of this project that I knew nothing about, the unauthorized decisions, taking money from an 'alternative' budget and bypassing several company processes. Dramas related to the reasons and supposed benefits of doing this project, benefits that can't clearly be quantified. For reference, an analogy to this project would be trying to install a more detailed version of your computer's task manager in addition to the existing simpler task manager. The point is to be able to view better and more detailed data on certain parameters. Honestly, it's more of a nice-to-have rather than a must-have.

But if I have to go through all this nonsense just to get it rolling, count me out. I'm sick of all this, it's not worth all the effort. I have a friend who's in a similar position, trying to get a big project rolling, just because his boss told him to. He has no idea why the project has to happen, the history behind it and the need for it in the first place. All he knows is that his boss told him to do so, and he's doing so. What happens next? All the shit gets thrown to him, people ask him for the why's and all the supposed benefits, he doesn't know. He even agrees that it's stupidly pointless to some extent but he has no say. Just gotta do what the boss says.

It was now 4:02 am in the same different timezone mentioned earlier, the managers were yet again not happy with what I have presented. Their comments were to redo the presentation from scratch whereas the presentation I did only cover the action items. You can already feel that the story is just going to repeat itself yet again. The one comment that sent me raging was when one of the managers explicitly told me. 

"The last time you came here was early this year. We gave you a month but instead, you came back in nine."

"I had good reasons for that-" (It took me frigging months to get projects to review them!!)

"I don't want to hear it. I just want you to not do that again."

"But-"

"No, just make sure you come back again in one month's time."

I can feel my blood boiling yet again as I write this. I should stop writing now before I accidentally type something I might regret later.

What a day today turned out to be, it started out all good and this had to happen. Made my mood foul the moment I stepped out of it. Some guys even saw me use 'excessive force' when opening doors and whatnot. I was even trying to be discreet while applying 'excessive force' to curb my anger. Luckily I got out of it real quick as I had lots to do afterward and it helped took my mind off of it for a while. 

---
Apologies for the mood and language here, I really wanted to vent it out. So frustrated with this whole project, I really want to just drop it right there and then. Seriously, I'm just wasting my time here. I have bigger things to worry about.