---
layout: post
title: When the floodgates open
---

Have you ever seen floodgates before? They're those giant gates that control the flow of water. Just picture a long river with a huge dam in the middle. Now imagine that dam having something like a gate that can either stop or allow the water to flow through. As the name suggests, floodgates are used to control and prevent floods. Now usually, there will be some kind of warning signals before the floodgates open. You would expect that, right? You can't open it just like that, think of all the consequences! For one, you're gonna flood the other side of the dam! Obviously, there should be some kind of warning or alarm right?

There's a saying that history repeats itself and I believe in that statement. Time and time again, I've seen it happen. More often than not, I noticed it when it happened to me. There will always be incidents that repeat itself, the same mistakes, the same missteps and the same mess ups. It's not that humans never learn, it's that no one can remember everything. It's only natural, you can't expect everyone to have a perfect memory of everything that's ever happened. We live and learn, then we die and forget it all. Good luck learning everything that's ever happened and passing it all down to the next generation. 

Even if humans are capable of remembering everything, it's easy to temporarily forget about something and not have it come to mind. Just try to recall all the books you've read, all the movies you've watched and all the clothes you wear on a semi-regular basis. You're bound to temporarily forget some of them, even though you probably still remember them. No one is capable of holding every single piece of memory in their mind at any one time. All it takes is a single lapse in concentration and you've already forgotten about something.

Flashback to my life a couple of weeks ago. It was calm, peaceful and rather predictable. That's not to say it was uneventful, rather, everything is simply progressing slowly as it should. Until one day, I received an email about something I've forgotten. Something is about to happen again. Suddenly, this email feels very much like a warning sign. A sign for what is to come. Little did I know, a few days after receiving that email, life started getting really busy. The things that were progressing slowly as it should, they're accelerating. It feels like I'm about to be flooded by it very soon. I can not only imagine what is to come in the coming weeks, I already know what is to come. It happened before, the floodgates have opened. 

The email I received was about an annual translation battle that's opened to the public. One that isn't restricted by where you live, one that doesn't require you to be a resident of a certain country that's spelled like 'us', and one where the only condition is that the all entries submitted must be original works by the contestant. When I received that email, I was quite figuratively bursting with excitement. I almost forgot that it was a yearly competition. 

Last year, I discovered that competition by chance while reading about translators and the difficulties in translating language-specific or culture-specific quirks. I was really looking forward to entering as it will no doubt be an excellent opportunity to improve my language skills. Unfortunately, the timing was really bad last as I was stuck on shift work for the whole duration of the competition. In the end, I only managed a pathetic draft that's not even complete. But this year, things are different. I'll be doing shift work for only half the duration of the competition, fingers crossed. So I would actually have time to enter this year. That's great news, isn't it? The only catch is that work suddenly got a lot busier the moment I received that email. 

This pattern I just described, I've seen it again and again. It happens all the time, one moment everything is dull and predictable. Then, something exciting that grabs my attention comes up and the next thing I know, I'm being flooded by everything in life and it's preventing me from pursuing that thing I was excited about. C'est la vie. By the looks of it, I think I'm heading towards the same outcome as last year. Getting only a draft ready and not even submitting it for judging because of all the other things that are going on. It really looks like history is about to repeat itself again and I'm going to let it despite knowing all this. Do I never learn? When will I graduate from having this situational awareness to being able to change things?

Perhaps it's not that I'm being overwhelmed by everything, it's not that I'm too busy, and it's *definitely* not that I procrastinate too much. Perhaps it's because I didn't even try. I'm starting to believe that it wasn't because I was too busy or had horrible time management skills last year. It's that I gave up way too early and didn't even try. In my mind, the chances of winning are really slim and I was always tired after work. So put two and two together and I ended up not even entering. But the point that I could improve my language skills was still there, why did I suddenly ignore that point?

There's this manga that I really like called 'Baby Steps'. It's about how a tennis player went from being a total newbie to playing competitively as a professional in just a few short years through sheer hard work and diligence. He is hardworking to a fault and has a strong mentality, doesn't waver even in the face of impossible situations and is always striving for growth and improvement. Anything that can help him achieve his impossibly high goal. That's pretty much why I like the series so much, the main character strives hard to achieve a self-imposed standard of excellence that's ridiculously high, and at the same time, the story execution has a rather realistic feel and not over the top. 

What I lacked last year was mental toughness. Seriously, last year was a disaster in a lot of ways, not just the competition. I even had a mental breakdown at one point on an unrelated matter, and the reason for it was mostly my lack of mental fortitude. So what am I going to do to fix it? The answer I've come up with so far is pressure. One thing I learned from reading Baby Steps is that without a certain amount of drive or pressure, it will be difficult to sustain a high level of performance. 

In the case of my competition last year, I did not feel enough pressure to succeed. Winning just didn't seem at all realistic and I had plenty of opportunities to improve my language skills through other activities. So there was no pressure, no consequences and no desire to do it well. But as I found out in another unrelated matter, too much pressure isn't good either. At a certain point in time last year, there was so much pressure directed at me and I couldn't deal with it very well. It resulted in a mental breakdown. Knowing this, how can I create the right kind of pressure to drive myself?

Fortunately, I seem to have discovered a working system for my blog, which is the $100 penalty for every missed Wednesday post. So far, it works great. The pressure is there but it's not overwhelming. It's only a hundred dollars, not a hundred thousand. At the same time, it's is still a hundred dollars, not just a hundred cents. It's a nice value that I don't want to lose but the idea of losing it won't be devastating enough to make me worry excessively and prioritize blogging over everything else in life.

Do I apply the same concept to my competition? Create accountability and force myself to lose something should I fail to uphold my promises? But before that, here's the punchline. I seem to have drifted off and forgot about the points I wanted to talk about. The three ideas I tried to juggle: Using floodgates as a metaphor for life when things go from calm to crazy, the idea that human lives are repetitive to the extent of having patterns because we can't stay aware of everything we have ever learned, and the idea that most of the time our problems are already solved by someone else and the key is to learn from others and apply it to yourself. 

The takeaway I wanted to synthesize is that while life is unpredictable and fluctuates heavily in the short-term, looking at it through a wider lens, it's clear that things hardly change and we often keep repeating the same few patterns over and over again. That being so, if you are aware of this idea, you can easily apply other people's solution to your problems and finally escape the patterns you unconsciously trap yourself in. 

---
As much as I want to polish this post even further, Wednesday is almost coming to an end. As for how I'm going to pressure myself to work on my translation, I think it's already been taken care of.