---
layout: post
title: How to write fast like your life depends on it
---

There's less than an hour left on the clock and I'm panicking right now. What do I do? How do I write fast? I need to get it done within the deadline but there's only so much time left. Honestly, this is something I hardly have any experience with. Usually, I have plenty of time and can write at my own leisure but today, it's different. I'm fighting against the clock and losing. Is this what they call writer's block? No, my problem is different. I have an idea what to write, I also know how to write it. The problem is that I can't write it well in just one try.

To think, I have three posts in draft right now. None of which I can publish because they're still in draft. The quality is horrible, lots of half baked sentences and broken flow between them. Given enough time, I can craft them into something pretty, I know that. But right now, I don't have that luxury. It's like how an amateur artist draws. They start with a basic outline that looks nothing like the final drawing, but they spend hours refining it until it looks at least presentable. One of the many differences between an amateur and a professional is that a professional can go from zero to presentable in minutes whereas an amateur would take hours just to go from zero to basic sketch outline to something presentable. There lies my problem, I'm still an amateur writer.

The three drafts I'm working in parallel? None of them are even close to being presentable yet, they're still in their basic sketch outline form. I have the skeleton structure plus a few sentences and paragraphs for certain ideas but the flow between them, it's non-existent. I'm also not happy with how the sentences are written and structured. I've been working on the three drafts back and forth trying to see which one is the easiest or closest to becoming presentable. None of them are. 

There's now less than thirty minutes left on the clock but I'm starting to calm down. What did I do? How did I write so fast? I need to get it done within the deadline and there's still so much time left. Honestly, this is something I hardly need anymore experience for. Usually, I don't write at a leisurely pace but today it's different. I'm writing to fill up time and time isn't keeping up with me. Is this what they call mentally slowing down time? No, it feels different. It feels like adrenaline, it feels like being hyper vigilant. The problem is, I can't slow down my pace very well.

To think, I still have about twenty minutes left. None of which I can use to fully polish my posts. The quality is acceptable, lots of on-the-spot sentences. Given enough tries, I can improve my ability to write better, I know that. But right now, I just want to finish this so I can sleep. It's like the difference between someone writing to kill time and someone killing their time by writing. The former writes for the sake of killing time while the latter kills their time for the sake of writing. Which of the two hats am I currently wearing?

---
There's now less than fifteen minutes left on the clock so I shall finish this up soon. Everything looks okay by the way I write it so perhaps it's fine to publish as is without any checks or proofreading. Seriously though, I was really feeling the pressure there. The thought of throwing away a hundred dollars for every missed Wednesday post is really effective. To think I could actually go from zero to post in less than an hour! Granted the content and quality is a different story but still, I should do this more often.