---
layout: post
title: Luck
---

There's no such thing as having bad luck. All the bad things that happen are all based on probability. Over a long enough span of time, they will all balance out to zero. That is, the number of good things will roughly equal the number of bad things that happened. Statistically, the expected value will always be at an equilibrium position of zero. Nothing more, nothing less. Of course, the assumption here is that the number of things happening is infinite.

Using coins as an analogy, the outcome of every toss is either a heads or a tails. Both outcomes have the same probability at 50:50 so it's fair to say that after a large enough number of tosses, there should be roughly an equal number of heads and tails. That is assuming we live in a perfect world and the coin is perfectly fair. What's to say about the slight possibility the coin lands on its sides? What's to say the coin had dents on one face and is, therefore, bias to one outcome over the other by a slim percentage? 

This is where luck comes in. Or rather, what is luck? Is a lucky person able to get 10 consecutive heads in a row? Or is that person simply very persevering and made a thousand tosses? Would you say it's bad luck to only get 10 consecutive heads out of a thousand tosses? Or out of ten thousand? Conservely, would you attribute that luck to the coin being bias? Even a small change in probability greatly affects the outcome. A coin that is 51:49 in favor of heads would greatly increase the chances of getting 10 consecutive heads in exactly 10 tosses from 0.0977% to 0.119%, which is already a 21.9% increase in probability. 

Suppose everyone has their own set of coins, but instead of heads or tails, it becomes good things happening or bad things happening. Over a lifetime, everyone would have flipped their coins millions of times over and over again. By right, the sum of the expected outcome for everyone would be very close to zero. Good things happen and bad things happen. Some might have more good things than bad or vice versa.

Occasionally, some days will be filled with 10 consecutive heads and others 10 consecutive tails. The question you might be interested in is, how often do they happen? Are you flipping more coins per day than everyone else? Are your coins are biased? Does one extreme happen more often than the other? How do they balance over a lifetime? Surely they would follow a normal distribution with most days being an even mixture of good and bad and only a tiny number of days where they lie in the extremes. 

On a wider scale, you could even go as far as saying every life is a coin toss. Some lives will have a better outcome than others and as an average, the expected outcome for the sum of every life is zero. Surely this is the case. We could go one step further and take all life as a dice roll as this will give a better resolution to how good their outcomes are but that's not the point of this post.

The point of this post is that there is no such thing as luck, everything is based on probability. Having bad luck implies that most days will go badly, but that is hardly the case. Everything balances out, it's just a matter of how often you make a toss and how biased your coin is. Perhaps luck refers to how biased your coin is but there are plenty of ways to overcome that. 

And yes, I'm ignoring the elephant in the room. I'm completely ignoring how luck is perceived, not everyone perceives bad luck as bad luck. More importantly perhaps, is that not everyone perceives good luck as good luck. 

---
This post was inspired when I was driving home one night. I stopped by a busy gas station and picked the shortest queue. Unfortunately, that was also the slowest queue. Later, I was trapped behind a slow-moving car and further along the road, there was an accident and the road was blocked just meters in front of me. 

Had I used a different queue at the gas station, I would've skipped that roadblock entirely. Fortunately, it wasn't long before the path was cleared. As if to signal the end of my bad luck, by sheer coincidence I went to the same restaurant as someone I know, who ended up treating me to dinner. 

The punchline came when I was about to reach home, there was yet another car stuck on the road. It was partially blocking the path so I had to slowly squeeze my way through the gap and finally made it home that night and it made me ponder about luck and probability. 
