---
layout: post
title: My recent fascination with Elon Musk
---

Have you heard of Elon Musk? Given his accomplishments with electric cars and space exploration, chances are you probably have. But how much do you know about him? Extraordinary people like him don't come very often, that's for sure, and recently I've been reading a lot about him. 

There's a really nice series of blog posts from Wait But Why. 

https://waitbutwhy.com/2017/03/elon-musk-post-series.html

If you're ever bored, do spend a few days going through the entire series. Yes, that ain't no typo. It took me a few days to read through the whole thing. I also ended up reading Elon Musk's biography, by Ashlee Vance.

Most people don't have a few days to spare, they're busy and don't want to invest so much time reading something they might not care about. So, let me just quickly summarize what I've learned. 

Elon Musk is a very unique type of person. He's very focused and has a very clear picture of what he wanted to do with his life, and that is, he wanted to do something that will most affect the future of humanity. His answer consists of five things: the internet, sustainable energy, space exploration and life beyond Earth, artificial intelligence, and reprogramming the human genetic code.

His first attempt was to tackle sustainable energy but after being enrolled in Stanford for a Ph.D. to study high-density capacitors, he dropped out a few days later because the internet was happening and he wanted to be part of it and ended up starting a company called Zip2, which was like a cross between a phone directory and Google maps. Later, he sold the company and founded X.com, which was his attempt at creating an internet bank. A few years later, it turned to PayPal and was sold for several billion. 

Being the largest shareholder, he walked away with more than a hundred million dollars and instead of doing what most successful entrepreneurs did after they sold their company, he put all that money and started two new companies. Not just any random company but an electric car company, Tesla, and a rocket company, SpaceX. 

Instead of retiring away and living a millionaire's life, he chose to invest all his money to maximize the impact on the future of humanity.

SpaceX was created with the ultimate mission of sending a million people to Mars to make humans a multi-planetary species by colonizing Mars. How? By advancing rocket technology and drastically reduce the cost of space travel. Why? Because of the looming dangers of extinction. It is entirely possible for an asteroid to hit Earth, a virus epidemic, and so on to wipe out life on Earth. There have already been five massive extinction events in history, along with many other smaller extinction events, and the dinosaurs were just one of them.

Tesla was created with the ultimate mission of replacing all gas cars in the world with electric cars. How? By fixing all the shortcomings of an electric car and creating an amazing car that's better than everything else in the market. Why? To combat global warming, reduce emissions as cars represent almost half of the world's use of fossil fuels. There's also SolarCity which is another company with the goal of increasing the use of solar panels. Ultimately, solar energy is the cleanest and most freely available source of energy out there. The only problem is storing that energy for use at night. 

That's just a brief summary anyway, do read the blog posts from Wait But Why. They're very informative and you'll get a much deeper understanding of the issues surrounding those topics. Trust me, it's really worth your time.