---
layout: post
title: To win by mistakes
---

There's a saying that goes like this. Professionals win by being slightly better than their opponents. Amateurs win by making fewer mistakes than their opponents. 

Professionals usually train themselves to the point where they don't make many mistakes. Matches between pros are usually dragged out, with each player playing at their peak. Both players want the other to make a mistake, but that rarely happens. 

Contrast this with amateur games, amateurs focus and do a few things really well but they still make a lot of mistakes in other areas. Matches between amateurs are usually entertaining, especially with beginners. The victor is usually the one who makes the least number of fatal mistakes. 

Sometimes, it is still possible for an amateur to win despite making a huge mistake. They win because their opponents made an even bigger mistake of not capitalizing on their mistakes. No chance of this ever happening in the professional world. 

It seems like everyone is too focused on being an amateur. We all want to do things really well but we rarely considered noticing our mistakes and correcting those. 

Think of the basketball player who can shoot 3 pointers but can't dribble very well. The artist great at sketching but horrible at inking. The poor college student who saves every penny from coupons and discounts but buys a $3 Starbucks every morning to lectures. 

In many ways, we're so focused on shooting 3 pointers that the other team wins because we can't hold on to the ball. Stop sketching when we know we really suck at inking. Just because we're so focused on saving money by clipping coupons and buying discounted stuff, it doesn't mean we are. There could be a hole in our pocket from all the coffee we're drinking.

Perhaps it's time to start thinking like a professional and stop winning by making fewer mistakes than our opponent. There's a lot more to gain from not making mistakes overall, compared to being the best in one area.